---
title: Class Syllabus for Polisci 621 - Fall 2020
description: Comparative Politics Research Design & Methods
---

### Instructor:
__Professor Florian M. Hollenbach__

__Email:__ fhollenbach@tamu.edu; __Web:__ [fhollenbach.org](fhollenbach.org)

__Office:__ 332 LASB Building; __Phone:__ 979-845-5021

__Office Hours:__ Wednesday 3:00pm to 5:00pm or by appointment

### Teaching Assistant:
__ Andrea Junqueira__

__ Email:__ andrea_junqueira@tamu.edu;

__Office Hours:__ TBA

### Class Meeting Time:
Tuesday, 1:30pm - 4:20pm

__Class Location:__ Zoom

### Class Website:
The syllabus on my website [http://fhollenbach.github.io/Pols621_2020](http://fhollenbach.github.io/Pols621_2020) will be continuously updated to reflect any schedule changes. Additional material will be posted on the shared Google Team Drive. We may use Canvas occasionally.

__All assignments are to be submitted electronically via email to fhollenbach@tamu.edu__

### COURSE DESCRIPTION: 
The goal of this course is to familiarize PhD students with the various existing approaches to research in comparative politics. We will cover different strategies and methods of how to produce high quality research. The course is designed so that students will encounter a number of different perspectives on research in the field of comparative politics. Topics range from  concept formation, case selection, case studies, to concepts of causal inference with observational data, experiments, and mixed methods. Students will learn how to evaluate other scholars' research but also practice skills to develop their own research designs. While most readings focus on research design and methods, we will pursue a "hands-on" approach and read as well as replicate applied work (where possible). At the end students should understand the most common approaches to studying comparative politics in the discipline today.

### LEARNING OUTCOMES:
At the end of the semester, after completing this course, students are expected to:

- Understand:
  1. problems of case selection, 
  2. the concept of causality
  3. the limits and strengths of observational data 
  4. experimental designs
- Be able to understand and apply methods commonly used for inference in observational settings
- Write critical but constructive reviews of peers' research
- Have developed skills to critically evaluate research & for designing their own research projects


### COURSE STRUCTURE & REQUIREMENTS:

The class will meet once a week from 1:30pm to 4:20pm on Tuesdays. For most weeks, you should expect classes to be about one hour of lecturing and 90 minutes of discussion. We will cover a variety of concepts, sometimes complicated. I expect you to have done __all__ of the *required* reading before sending discussion questions. Even when I lecture, I want you to ask questions and participate actively. In the second part of class we will discuss the readings and applications in more of a group setting. We will also try to work through example applications whenever possible. 


For part of this class we will be working on the computer with statistical software. We will use the statistical programming language __R__. R is available for download [here:](https://cran.revolutionanalytics.com). I would recommend you download R-Studio, which is a software that makes the use of R much easier. You can download R-Studio [here:](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download2/). Both R and R-Studio are free.

It is important that you somewhat familiarize yourself with R in the first few weeks of the semester. Here is a short document on how to write good r-code: [https://github.com/fhollenbach/CodingRules/blob/master/Best_practices_R.pdf](https://github.com/fhollenbach/CodingRules/blob/master/Best_practices_R.pdf). The document also includes some links to resources for learning R, e.g.,[https://github.com/Joscelinrocha/Learning-R-resources/wiki](https://github.com/Joscelinrocha/Learning-R-resources/wiki).

###  GRADING & RESPONSIBILITIES:

Your grade will be based on the following: 

1. Participation (5%)
2. Two discussion questions for every class session (10%)
3. One in-class presentation (15%)
4. Two paper reviews, simulating a review for the APSR/AJPS/JOP (20%)
5. Motivation of Research Question, i.e., paper Introduction (15%)
6. Final Project Research Design Presentation (15%)
7. NSF Dissertation Improvement Grant proposal (20%) 

#### Readings

We will be reading both articles and book chapters throughout the semester. Readings under the header Additional Readings are not required, but suggestions for those interested in the particular topic. This is a PhD student level seminar; as such I expect all students to come to class prepared, having read __all required material__ prior to sending discussion questions on Wednesday mornings. I also expect you to complete relevant assignments on time.

Some of the weeks have substantial amounts of readings that may take significant time to get through. Make sure you start early enough. Additionally, some of the methodological work will be difficult. It is okay if you do not fully understand everything before coming to class, that is what our class meetings are for. Nevertheless, read carefully and try to understand each article/chapter. Take notes on your readings, especially on parts you do not understand.

If you have not done so, I would advise you to develop a consistent system of reading and taking notes. We will discuss some approaches to reading early in the semester.

Since we will read large parts of them, you should acquire the following books:

__Required Books:__
  - Seawright, Jason. 2016. "__Multi-Method Social Science.__" Cambridge University Press. (denoted MMSS below)
  - Angrist, Joshua and Pischke, Joern-Steffen. 2014. "__Mastering Metrics: The Path from Cause to Effect.__" Princeton University Press. (denoted MM below)
  - King, Gary and Keohane, Robert O. and Verba, Sidney. 1994.  "__Designing Social Inquiry: Scientific Inference in Qualitative Research}''. Princeton University Press.__" (denoted KKV below)
  - We will also reference Scott Cunningham's "__Causal Inference: The Mixtape__" frequently. You can find a free version of the book here: [https://www.scunning.com/causalinference_norap.pdf](https://www.scunning.com/causalinference_norap.pdf). You can also think of this book as an additional resource if you do not understand material presented elsewhere. 

When reading applied papers, you should think about questions such as:
    - Question/Framing: What is the question the authors are trying to answer in this work? Is this work important?
    - Theory: Is there an original contribution in the theoretical part of the work? Is the theoretical argument coherent? Are the mechanisms elaborated sufficiently? Are the assumptions plausible? Do the hypotheses follow logically from the theoretical argument? Are there theoretical implications that the authors missed?
    - __Research Design:__ What is the unit of analysis? What is the research design? Does the research design allow the authors to test the specified hypotheses? Does it allow them to answer the question posed in their work? Are there important issues the authors missed? How could the research design be improved? Does the research design allow for causal identification? If not, why not? Is the description of the research design sufficient?
    - Data: Are variables adequately measured and do they correspond to the concepts of interest? Could we improve the authors’ measures? Are other (better) data available to investigate these questions? Is the description of the data sufficient to replicate the authors’ results?
    - Findings: Are the results correctly interpreted? Are the findings substantively important? How do the results correspond to the theory? Are there other potential explanations that are not ruled out by the research design? Are the authors interpreting the results causally? If so, is that justified?
    - Writing: Which sections of the paper are well/poorly written? Why? Are there parts that are particularly exciting/convincing? If so, for what reason? Does the introduction make you want to continue reading the work? What do you think about the overall structure of the work? Pay particular attention to the abstract and introduction.

#### Discussion Points:
- To facilitate discussion, please send two discussion questions/points about the readings/class topic at noon on Monday (the day before our class meeting). These could be questions about things you do not understand or criticisms/suggestions about the readings. I will post the collection of your discussion points to the Google Team Drive by 5:00 pm on Mondays. Please try review them briefly before class.

#### Presentation
- Each of you will prepare one presentation about an applied paper for one of the class sessions. Your presentation should be a discussion of the paper and discuss potential short comings or improvements. You should be critical but constructive. Focus especially on the research design and analysis. If possible, we may try to establish a video conference with the author(s). 

#### Peer Review
- Pick two papers from the list provided in the Google Team Drive. I will assign each of you two due dates for reviews based on your ranked preferences. You should write a review of these papers as if you are reviewing for the APSR/AJPS/JOP. Your review should be at least 1 page single-spaced. On the Google Drive you can find some example reviews done by A&M faculty in previous years __(do not share these reviews)__. Here are some links that may be helpful before writing your first review: 
  - [AJPS Instructions](https://ajps.org/ajps-reviewer-instructions/)
  - [JOP Instructions](http://www.thejournalofpolitics.org/reviewers.html)
  - Miller, Beth & Pevehouse, Jon & Rogowski, Ron & Tingley, Dustin & Wilson, Rick. 2013. "How To Be a Peer Reviewer: A Guide for Recent and Soon-to-be PhDs." PS: Political Science & Politics. 46(1):120-123.
  - [Krupnikov & Levine: Offering (Constructive) Criticism When Reviewing (Experimental) Research](https://thepoliticalmethodologist.com/2016/01/01/offering-constructive-criticism-when-reviewing-experimental-research/)
  - [Nyhan: A Checklist Manifesto for Peer Review](https://thepoliticalmethodologist.com/2015/12/04/a-checklist-manifesto-for-peer-review/)
  - [Humphreys on Discussing and Reviewing](http://www.macartan.nyc/teaching/discuss/)

#### Introduction/Research Motivation
- Submit a 1-2 page (double spaced) introduction/motivation for your research project. Effectively this should be written like the introduction to an article submission. The introduction should be about the same topic/question as your research design and optimally you will want this to be about (or related to) a possible dissertation topic. The introduction needs to clearly state the question you want to answer, why the reader should care, what and how your work contributes to the literature, and a preview (one paragraph) of the research design. Please be ambitious when it comes to your research question and a possible research design. I will meet with each of you to provide feedback to you on the introduction during office hours. __This assignment is due on: 03/25/2019__ Two links that might be helpful when writing the introduction:
  - [Keith Head: The Introduction Formula](http://blogs.ubc.ca/khead/research/research-advice/formula)
  - [Andrew Little: Three Templates for Introductions to Political Science
Articles](http://www.andrewtlittle.com/papers/little_intros.pdf)

#### Research Design
- The final project in this class is to submit a __research design__. Your final project will be a research design for a future paper or possible dissertation project. Specifically, you should combine the introduction to your research question with a research design section. After receiving feedback on the introduction, you will give a short presentation of your research design during our last class session on 11/24/2019. This presentation may be attended by other faculty in the department, with the goal of providing constructive feedback to you. Your final project (and presentation) does not need to include data or data analysis. Instead, focus on writing up a clear research design that will allow you to empirically investigate your research question in the best possible way. What are the observable implications of your argument? What research design will allow you to best discriminate between different explanations? How could you best identify a causal relationship? 
- Your research design should be __ambitious__. Think hard about what you would like to do in your research, maybe even dream a little. 
- One goal of the research design is that you could possibly use it for an application to the NSF Dissertation Improvement Grants.  You can find information about the NSF Dissertation Improvement Grant [here](https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2015/nsf15571/nsf15571.htm) (though with the restructuring of NSF, things might change a bit). The goal is for you to be able to submit an application in the spring or summer of 2020. Talk to your advisers about possibly submitting an application.

Your written assignments will be graded on both content and quality of writing. Again, I want you to be ambitious in your research designs. You can find helpful links on how to write well here: [http://fhollenbach.org/WritingAcademic/](http://fhollenbach.org/WritingAcademic/). Writing is one of the most fundamental skills for academics. All of us struggle and it requires a lot of practice. Do not hesitate to ask for help. If you are having trouble with it, please talk to me or visit the University Writing Center (see below).

The grading scale (in %) used in this class for all written assignments, and the overall class grade will be the following:

- A= 89.5
- B= 79.5–<89.5
- C= 69.5–<79.5
- D= 59.5–<69.5
- F=<59.6

### WRITING HELP:
The University Writing Center (UWC), located in 1.214 Sterling C. Evans Library and
205 West Campus Library, offers one-on-one consultations to
writers. To find out more about UWC
services or to schedule an appointment, call 458-1455, visit the web
page at [https://writingcenter.tamu.edu/](https://writingcenter.tamu.edu/), or stop by in person. 
 
### ACADEMIC HONESTY:
"An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do."

"Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one’s work, should the instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case" [Section 20.1.2.3, Student Rule 20](https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/Rules-and-Procedures/Rules/Honor-System-Rules).

You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at [aggiehonor.tamu.edu](aggiehonor.tamu.edu).

All students should follow the highest standards of academic integrity. __Cheating or plagiarism will not be tolerated in any way and will have grave consequences for your academic career.__ If you are unsure what entails plagiarism, come talk to me. __Any cases of cheating or plagiarism will be submitted to the academic honor council, no exceptions.__

### CLASSROOM BEHAVIOR, PARTICIPATION, & ELECTRONIC DEVICES:

I expect you to attend class unless circumstances prohibit you from doing so. If you must miss class, please let me know in advance. You are still responsible to do the readings and submit discussion questions and assignments, even if you are missing class. Of course, this semester is full of unusual circumstances. If you have trouble following the class or fulfilling any of the requirements, please speak to me early on. Similarly, if you get sick, let me know. 

I strongly encourage __everybody__ to participate in class discussion. Please be respectful to your fellow class mates, do not interrupt them, and wait until called upon. 

While we are all on the computer during class, please try to keep distractions to a minimum. In addition, please make sure your cell phones are on silent mode and refrain from using them or other devices during class time. 

### Classroom Code of Conduct

The Department of Political Science at Texas A&M University is committed to fostering an environment of learning and scholarship that is open, respectful, and welcoming to all, regardless of race, religion, gender (identity), ability, age, socio-economic background, or sexual orientation. As outlined in the department’s Code of Conduct, we strive to create a positive climate for all students, faculty, and staff. We are dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for all members and guests of the department. 
Whereas, we expect members of the political science department to adhere to the departmental Code of Conduct in general, respectful behavior by all participants is especially important in the classroom and other course-related interactions (virtual and in-person). An environment conducive to learning and scholarship requires free speech and an open mind, but must be free of harassment[^1], hostile, or threatening behaviors. Faculty, staff, and students ought to be proactive in helping others and speak up to avoid harm in the case that any of these unwelcome behaviors are observed. 

[^1]: As defined in the Society for Political Methodology Code of Conduct, harassment includes but is not limited to “degrading verbal comments, discriminatory jokes and language, deliberate intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.”

In selecting a __Zoom background__, it is expected that everyone adheres to the above Code of Conduct and refrains from material that is discriminatory or degrading to others. 

In the Zoom environment, __your screen name must be the name that is listed on the course roster__, unless otherwise noted. If you do not go by the name on the roster, please contact Dr. Hollenbach in the first week of class. 


### ABSENCES & LATE POLICY:
Except in the case of observance of a religious holiday, to be excused, the student must
notify his or her instructor in writing (acknowledged e-mail message
is acceptable) prior to the date of absence. In cases where advance
notification is not feasible (e.g. accident or emergency) the student
must provide notification by the end of the second working day after
the absence. This notification should include an explanation of why
the notice could not be sent prior to the class. Accommodations sought for
absences due to the observance of a religious holiday can be sought
either prior or after the absence, but not later than two working days
after the absence. Legitimate circumstances include religious
holidays, illness, serious family emergencies
and participation in group activities sponsored by the University,
etc. See [http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07](http://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07) for additional
information. 

All assignments are due on their due date at the beginning of class. Unexcused late work will be penalized by a 7.5 percentage point deduction for each 24hrs your work is late. For example, if you hand in the assignment on the same day it is due, but after class, your maximum score will be 92.5%. If you hand in your assignment more than 24hrs late, e.g., 1:45 pm the next day, your maximum score will be 85%, after 48hrs it would be 77.5%, and so on. Late work will be excused only in the case of university-excused absences. Only under extreme circumstance will I make exceptions to these rules. __Again, if something comes up that keeps you from performing your best in this class, please talk to me early on.__

__In the fall of 2020, students may use the Explanatory Statement for Absence from Class formin lieu of a medical confirmation. Students must submit the Explanatory Statement for Absence from Class within three business days after the last date of absence.__

### RE-GRADING POLICY:
Students that want to appeal a grade received on an exam or assignment must submit a regrading request in written form (e.g., email). This request has to be turned in within five working days after the graded exams or assignments are returned to the class. The written statement must explain exactly why the student believes the current grade is incorrect. I will then regrade the entire assignment extra carefully. NOTE, as a consequence your grade may go up or down.

### COMMUNICATION:
The best place to ask questions is in the zoom classroom. Most questions that arise are things that are also pertinent to other students, please ask it in class. If your question is not related to class material or relevant to other students, we can discuss it after class. I encourage you to visit my office hours to discuss any difficulties with the readings or class. 

You can generally expect me to reply to emails within 24 hours during the work week. 

### DISABILITY:
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact Disability Resources in the Student Services Building or at (979) 845-1637 or visit [http://disability.tamu.edu](http://disability.tamu.edu). Disabilities may include, but are not limited to attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability related needs with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.


Reasonable accommodations will be made for all students with
disabilities, but it is the student’s responsibility to inform the
instructor early in the term. Do not wait until just before an exam to
decide you want to inform the instructor of a learning disability; any
accommodations for disabilities must be arranged well in advance.
 
### Title IX and Statement on Limits to Confidentiality

Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit gender-based discrimination and sexual harassment, including sexual assault, sexual exploitation, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.

With the exception of some medical and mental health providers, all university employees (including full and part-time faculty, staff, paid graduate assistants, student workers, etc.) are Mandatory Reporters and must report to the Title IX Office if the employee experiences, observes, or becomes aware of an incident that meets the following conditions (see [University Rule 08.01.01.M1](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/08.01.01.M1.pdf)):

•	The incident is reasonably believed to be discrimination or harassment. 
•	The incident is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who, at the time of the incident, was (1) a student enrolled at the University or (2) an employee of the University. 

Mandatory Reporters must file a report regardless of how the information comes to their attention – including but not limited to face-to-face conversations, a written class assignment or paper, class discussion, email, text, or social media post. Although Mandatory Reporters must file a report, in most instances, you will be able to control how the report is handled, including whether or not to pursue a formal investigation. The University’s goal is to make sure you are aware of the range of options available to you and to ensure access to the resources you need.

Students wishing to discuss concerns in a confidential setting are encouraged to make an appointment with [Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)](https://caps.tamu.edu/). 

Students can learn more about filing a report, accessing supportive resources, and navigating the Title IX investigation and resolution process on the University’s [Title IX webpage](https://titleix.tamu.edu/).

### Changes to Syllabus
__I reserve the right to update/modify/clarify the syllabus with advance
notification.__


## Class Schedule

## Week 1 (08/25)
- Introduction, Syllabus, Logistics

__Is the science of comparative politics possible?__

Readings:

  - Boix, Carles & Susan C. Stokes. 2009. "__Introduction.__" Boix, Carles and Susan C. Stokes (eds.): Oxford Handbook of Comparative Politics. Oxford: Oxford University Press (On Google Team Drive)
  - Lijphart, Arend. (1971). "__Comparative Politics and the Comparative Method.__" American Political Science Review, 65(3), 682-693.
  - Przeworski, Adam (2007): "__Is the Science of Comparative Politics Possible?__" Boix, Carles and Susan C. Stokes (eds.): Oxford Handbook of Comparative Politics. Oxford: Oxford University Press: 147-171. (On Google Team Drive)
  - Hall, Peter A. (2003): "__Aligning Ontology and Methodology in Comparative Research.__" In: Mahoney, James and Dietrich Rueschemeyer (eds.): Comparative Historical Analysis in the Social Sciences. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press: 373-404. (On Google Team Drive)



## Week 2 (09/01): Concepts & Measurement

Readings:

  - Sartori, Giovanni. 1970. "__Concept Misinformation in Comparative Politics.__" American Political Science Review 64(4): 1033-1053.
  - Collier, David, and James E. Mahon. 1993. "__Conceptual Stretching Revisited: Adapting Categories in Comparative Analysis.__" American Political Science Review 87(4): 845-855.
  - KKV Chapters 1 & 2
  
Applications:

  - Treier, Shawn and Jackman, Simon. 2008. "__Democracy as a Latent Variable.__" American Journal of Political Science. 52(1):201-217

Additional Readings:

  - Goertz, Gary. 2006. "__Social Science Concepts: A User’s Guide.__" Princeton: Princeton University Press. 

## Week 3 (09/08): Models and Theory

Readings:
    
  - Geddes, Barbara. 2003."__Paradigms and Sand Castles: Theory Building and Research Design in Comparative Politics.__"  University of Michigan Press: Ann Arbor __Chapter 2__ (available electronically through library)
  - Gerring, John. 2011. "__Social Science Methodology : A Unified Framework.__" Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA. __Chapter 3__ (available electronically through library)
  - Clarke, Kevin A., and David M. Primo. 2007. "__Modernizing Political Science: A Model- Based Approach.__" Perspectives on Politics. 5(4): 741-753.
  
Applications:

  - Svolik, Milan. 2013. "__Learning to Love Democracy: Electoral Accountability, Government Performance, and the Consolidation of Democracy.__" American Journal of Political Science. 57(3): 685-702. 

Reviews:
  
  1. Niels
  2. Joo Won 
  
## Week 4 (09/15): Case Selection 

Readings: 
  
  - Geddes, Barbara. 2003."__Paradigms and Sand Castles: Theory Building and Research Design in Comparative Politics.__"  University of Michigan Press: Ann Arbor __Chapters 3 & 4__ (available electronically through library)
  - MMSS Chapter 4
  - KKV Chapter 4

Additional Readings:

  - Gerring, John. 2007. "__Case Study Research: Principles and Practices.__" Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA. __Chapter 4__

Reviews:
  
  1. Lauren
  2. Emily

  
## Week 5 (09/22): Case Studies & Analytical Narratives (virtual visit by David Skarbek)

Presentation: Niels, Swarup

Readings: 

  - Gerring, John. 2007. "__Case Study Research: Principles and Practices.__" Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA. Chapter 3 (on Google Team Drive)
  - MMSS: Chapter 3
  - Levi, Margaret and Weingast, Barry R. 2017. "__Analytic Narratives, Case Studies, and Development.__" Working Paper. Available at SSRN: [https://ssrn.com/abstract=2835704](https://ssrn.com/abstract=2835704) (on Google Team Drive)
  - KKV section 6.1 (pages 208-213) 

Applications __(pick one)__:

- Skarbek, David. 2011. "__Governance and Prison Gangs.__" American Political Science Review. 105(4): 702–16. 
- Weyland, Kurt. 2016. "__Crafting Counterrevolution: How Reactionaries Learned to Combat Change in 1848.__" American Political Science Review. 110(2): 215–31.

Additional Readings: 

  - Gerring, John. 2007. "__Case Study Research: Principles and Practices.__" Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA.
  - Skarbek, David. 2016. "__Covenants without the Sword? Comparing Prison Self-Governance Globally.__" American Political Science Review. 110(4): 845–62.
  
Reviews:
  
  Paper 1
  1. Rena
  2. Christy
  
  Paper 2
  3. Andrea
  4. John
  
## Week 6 (09/29): Concepts of Causal Inference

Readings:

  - Imbens, Guido and Rubin, Donald D. 2015. "__Causal Inference for Statistics, Social, and Biomedical Sciences: An Introduction.__" Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA. Chapters 1 & 2: pages 3--30 (On Google Team Drive)
  - Rubin, Donald 2005. "__Causal Inference Using Potential Outcomes.__" Journal of the American Statistical Association. 100(469):322–331.  
  - Pearl, Judea and Glymour, Madelyn and Jewell, Nicholas P. 2016. "__Causal Inference in Statistics : A Primer.__" John Wiley & Sons: West Sussex, UK. __Skim Chapter 1 as necessary, Read Chapter 2__ (available electronically through library)

Additional readings: 

  - KKV: Chapter 3
  - Cunningham: Chapters "Directed acyclical graphs" & "Potential outcomes causal model"

Reviews:

  1. Jongwoo
  2. Ali
  
## Week 7 (10/06):  Discovering Natural Experiments & Diff-in-Diffs 

Presentation: Rena, Christy

Readings: 

  - Dunning: Chapters 1 & 2
  - Sekhon, Jasjeet S. and Titiunik, Rocio. 2012. "__When Natural Experiments Are Neither Natural nor Experiments.__" American Political Science Review. 106(1):35–57.

Applications __(pick two)__:

  - Galiani, Sebastian and Ernesto Schargrodsky. 2010. "__Property Rights for the Poor: Effects of Land Titling.__" Journal of Public Economics 94(9):700-729.
  - Blattman, Christopher and Jeannie Annan, 2010. "__The Consequences of Child Soldiering.__" The Review of Economics and Statistics, MIT Press 92(4): 882-898.
  - Hainmueller, Jens, and Hangartner, Dominik. 2013. "__Who Gets a Swiss Passport? A Natural Experiment in Immigrant Discrimination.__" American Political Science Review. 107(1):159–187
    
Additional Readings: 

  - MMSS Chapter 6
    
Reviews:
  
  1. Swarup
  2. Emily
  

## Week 8 (10/13) Text as Data (visit by Molly Roberts)

Presentation: Jongwoo & John

Readings: 

 
  - Grimmer, Justin and Roberts, Margaret E. and Stewart, Brandon M. Chapter 2.  (on Google Team Drive) __(do not share)__
  - Lucas, Christopher and Nielsen, Richard and Roberts, Margaret E. and Stewart, Brandon M. and Storer,  Alex and Tingley, Dustin.  2014.  "__Computer Assisted Text Analysis for Comparative Politics.__" Political Analysis. 23(2): 254-277.
  - Grimmer, Justin and Stewart,  Brandon M. 2013. "__Text as Data: The Promise and Pitfalls of Automatic Content Analysis Methods for Political Texts.__" Political Analysis. 21(3): 267–97. (__skim__)
  
  
Applications __(pick one)__:
    
   - King, Gary and Pan, Jennifer and Roberts, Margaret E. 2017. "__How the Chinese Government Fabricates Social Media Posts for Strategic Distraction, not Engaged Argument.__" American Political Science Review. 111(3): 484-501.
   - Baerg, Nicole and Will Lowe. 2018. "__A Textual Taylor Rule: Estimating Central Bank Preferences Combining Topic and Scaling Methods.__" Political Science Research and Methods. First View. 

Additional Readings: 

  - Silge, Julia and Robinson, David. 2017. "__Text Mining with R: A Tidy Approach.__" O'Reilly Media: Sebastopol, CA. Available here: [https://www.tidytextmining.com/](https://www.tidytextmining.com/)

Reviews:
  
  Paper 1
  1. Niels
  2. Rena
  
  Paper 2 
  1. Andrea
  2. Nasim
  
## Week 9 (10/20)  Regression Discontinuity (virtual visit by Pablo Querubin)

Presentation: Joo Won & Andrea

Submit Introduction/Research Motivation

Readings:

  - Dunning: Chapter 3 & section 5.2
  - MM: chapter 4

Applications __(pick two)__:

  - Dell, Melissa. 2010. "__The Persistent Effects of Peru's Mining Mita.__" Econometrica 78(6): 1863-1903.
  - Dell, Melissa, and Pablo Querubin. 2018. "__Nation Building Through Foreign Intervention: Evidence from Discontinuities in Military Strategies__.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 133(2): 701-764.
  - Brollo, Fernanda and Nannicini, Tommaso. 2012. "__Tying Your Enemy's Hands in Close Races: The Politics of Federal Transfers in Brazil.__" American Political Science Review. 106(4): 742–61. 
  - Szakonyi, David. 2018. "__Businesspeople in Elected Office: Identifying Private Benefits from Firm-Level Returns.__" American Political Science Review. 112(2): 322–338.
    
Additional readings: 

  - Cunningham: chapter "Regression discontinuity"
  - Cattaneo, Matias D. and Idrobo, Nichol\`as and Titiunik, Roc\'io. 2018. "__A Practical Introduction to Regression Discontinuity Designs: Volume II__" Cambridge Elements: Quantitative and Computational Methods for Social Science. Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, MA. [http://www-personal.umich.edu/~titiunik/books/CattaneoIdroboTitiunik2018-Cambridge-Vol2.pdf](http://www-personal.umich.edu/~titiunik/books/CattaneoIdroboTitiunik2018-Cambridge-Vol2.pdf)
  - Calonico, Sebastian and Cattaneo, Matias D. and Titiunik, Rocio. 2014. "__Robust nonparametric confidence intervals for regression-discontinuity designs.__ Econometrica. 82(6):2295-2326.
  - Eggers, Andrew C. and Freier, Ronny and Grembi, Veronica and Nannicini, Tommaso. 2018. "__Regression Discontinuity Designs Based on Population Thresholds: Pitfalls and Solutions.__" American Journal of Political Science. 62(1):210-229. 

  Reviews: 
  1. Ali
  2. Maxwell
  
## Week 10 (10/27) Instrumental Variables 

Presentation: Emily & Ali

Readings:

  - Dunning: chapter 4 & section 5.3
  - MM: chapter 3

Applications  __(pick two)__:
    
  - Acharya,  Avidit and Blackwell, Matthew and Sen, Maya. 2016. "__The Political Legacy of American Slavery.__" The Journal of Politics.  78(3): 621-641.
  - Nunn Nathan. 2008. "__The Long Term Effects of Africa's Slave Trades.__" Quarterly Journal of Economics. 123(1):139-176.
  - Trounstine, Jessica. 2016."__Segregation and Inequality in Public Goods.__" American Journal of Political Science. 60(3): 709-725.
  - Acemoglu, Daron and Johnson, Simon and J.Robinson. 2001. "__The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation.__" American Economic Review. 91(5):1369–1401
  
Additional readings: 
  
  - Cunningham: chapter "Instrumental variables"
  - Betz, Timm and Cook, Scott J. and Hollenbach, Florian M. 2019. "__Spatial Interdependence and Instrumental Variable Models.__". Political Science Research and Methods. In Print.
    
 Reviews:
  
  1. Lauren
  2. Nasim
     
## Week 11 (11/03) Experiments  (visit by Jessica Gottlieb)

Presentation: Maxwell

Readings:
  
  - MM: Chapter 1
  - Duflo, Esther, Rachel Glennerster and Michael Kremer. 2007. "__Using Randomization in Development Economics Research: A Toolkit.__" [http://economics.mit.edu/files/806](http://economics.mit.edu/files/806)  __Chapters 4 & 5__

Applications __(pick two)__:

  - Habyarimana, Humphreys, Posner, and Weinstein. 2006. "__Why Does Ethnic Diversity Undermine Public Goods Provision? An Experimental Approach.__" American Political Science Review. 109(4): 709-726.
  - Paler, Laura. 2013. "__Keeping the Public Purse: An Experiment in Windfalls, Taxes, and the Incentives to Restrain Government.__" American Political Science Review 104(7): 706-725.
  - Grossman, Guy, and Michelitch, Kristin. 2018. "__Information Dissemination, Competitive Pressure, and Politician Performance between Elections: A Field Experiment in Uganda.__" American Political Science Review. 112(2): 280–301.
  - Raffler, Pia. 2018. "__Does Political Oversight of the Bureaucracy Increase Accountability? Field Experimental Evidence from an Electoral Autocracy.__". Working Paper. [link](http://piaraffler.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/Raffler_Political-Oversight.pdf)
  - Gottlieb, Jessica. 2016. "__Greater Expectations? A Field Experiment to Improve Accountability in Mali.__" American Journal of Political Science. 60(1): 143-157.
  
Additional Readings: 
    
  - MMSS Chapter 7

Reviews:
  
  1. Swarup
  2. Christy
  
## Week 12 (11/10) Surveys & Survey Experiments (virtual visit by Jason Lyall)

Presentation: Lauren & Nasim

Readings: 

  - Fowler, Floyd J. 2009. "__Applied Social Research Methods: Survey research methods (4th ed.).__" SAGE Publications:  Thousand Oaks, CA. __Chapters 1 - 3__ (available electronically through library)
  - Hainmueller, Jens and  Hangartner, Dominik and Yamamoto, Teppei. 2015. "__Do survey experiments capture real-world behavior?__" Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. [https://www.pnas.org/content/early/2015/01/28/1416587112.short](https://www.pnas.org/content/early/2015/01/28/1416587112.short)
   
Applications  __(pick two)__:

  - Lyall, Jason and Blair, Graeme and Imai, Kosuke. 2013. "__Explaining Support for Combatants during Wartime: A Survey Experiment in Afghanistan.__" American Political Science Review. 107(4):679–705. 
  - Frye, Timothy. 2006. "__Original Sin, Good Works, and Property Rights in Russia: Evidence from a Survey Experiment.__" World Politics 58(4):479-504.
  - Malesky, Eddy J. and Gueorguiev, Dimitar D. and Jensen, Nathan M. 2015. "__Monopoly Money: Foreign Investment and Bribery in Vietnam, a Survey Experiment.__" American Journal of Political Science. 59(2):419-439. 
  - Blair, Graeme, Kosuke Imai, and Jason Lyall. 2014. "__Comparing and Combining List and Endorsement Experiments: Evidence from Afghanistan.__" American Journal of Political Science. 58(4):1043-1063.

Reviews:
  
  Paper 1:
  1. Joo Won 
  2. Jongwoo
  
  Paper 2:
  3. Maxwell
  4. John
  
## Week 13 (11/17) Combining Quantitative and Qualitative Evidence


Readings: 
    
  - Humphreys, Macarten, and Alan M. Jacobs. 2015. "__Mixing Methods: A Bayesian Approach.__" American Political Science Review. 109(4): 653-673.
  - MMSS Chapter 8
  - Lieberman, Evan I. 2005. "__Nested Analysis as a Mixed-Method Strategy for Comparative Research.__" American Political Science Review. 99(3): 435-452.
    
Applications  __(pick one)__:

  - Nichter, Simeon and Peress, Michael. 2017. "__Request Fulfilling: When Citizens Demand Clientelist Benefits.__" Comparative Political Studies. 50(8): 1086–1117. 
  - Lyall, Jason and Wilson III, Isaiah. 2009. "__Rage Against the Machines: Explaining Outcomes in Counterinsurgency Wars.__" International Organization. 63(1): 67--106.
   
## Week 14 (11/24) Research Design Presentations

## Week 15 (12/02)
__Final Research Design & NSF Proposal Project Description due__
